**_Test Automation Best Practices Documentation_**

# Table of Contents

[Introduction](#introduction)

[Naming Conventions](#naming-conventions)

[Spec File Names](#spec-file-names)

[Naming Methods, Functions, and
Variables](#naming-methods-functions-and-variables)

[Code Spell Checking](#code-spell-checking)

[Managing Test Case Length](#managing-test-case-length)

[Issues with Lengthy Spec Files](#issues-with-lengthy-spec-files)

[Writing Independent \"Describe\"
Blocks](#writing-independent-describe-blocks)

[Splitting Spec Files](#splitting-spec-files)

[Sharing Values between Spec Files](#sharing-values-between-spec-files)

[Improving Test Execution
Efficiency](#improving-test-execution-efficiency)

[Avoid Starting Functions with Wait
Statements](#avoid-starting-functions-with-wait-statements)

[Ending \"It\" Blocks with \"Expect\"
Statements](#ending-it-blocks-with-expect-statements)

[Minimizing Unnecessary Variable
Declarations](#minimizing-unnecessary-variable-declarations)

[Setting Timeouts for Wait
Commands](#setting-timeouts-for-wait-commands)

[Enhancing Maintainability](#enhancing-maintainability)

[Organizing Reusable Functions and
Utilities](#organizing-reusable-functions-and-utilities)

[Avoiding Code Duplication](#avoiding-code-duplication)

[Using Meaningful Names](#using-meaningful-names)

[Timeouts Management](#timeouts-management)

[Setting Timeouts as Variables](#setting-timeouts-as-variables)

[Branch and Pull Request
Guidelines](#branch-and-pull-request-guidelines)

[Keeping Branches Updated and Resolving
Conflicts](#keeping-branches-updated-and-resolving-conflicts)

[Working on Branches with Open Pull
Requests](#working-on-branches-with-open-pull-requests)

[Deleting Branches after Pull
Requests](#deleting-branches-after-pull-requests)

[Conclusion](#conclusion)

# Introduction

This documentation provides a set of best practices to follow when
implementing test automation. By adhering to these guidelines, you can
improve the efficiency, maintainability, and readability of your test
code.

# Naming Conventions

## Spec File Names

To ensure compatibility with runners and CI systems, use shorter names
for spec files. Provide detailed descriptions within the \"describe\"
block instead of relying solely on the file name. Avoid creating
unnecessary nested folder structures that could cause issues with file
naming.

## Naming Methods, Functions, and Variables

Follow consistent naming conventions for methods, functions, and
variables. Use camelCase for improved readability. Restrict the use of
special characters to underscores (\_) for folder and file names.

## Code Spell Checking

Install code spell checker extensions to identify any misspellings or
inconsistencies in your code. This helps to maintain consistent camel
casing throughout your test code.

![](../assets/code_spell_checker.png)

# Managing Test Case Length

## Issues with Lengthy Spec Files

Long spec files with numerous lines of code can lead to increased
runtime and cascading failures if \"describe\" blocks are dependent on
each other. Additionally, using the \"spec try\" option becomes
challenging, as it doubles the runtime.

## Writing Independent \"Describe\" Blocks

To minimize dependencies and failures, write \"describe\" blocks as
independent entities. This ensures that if a failure occurs in one
block, it does not affect the execution of other blocks.

## Splitting Spec Files

To manage test case length, split large spec files into smaller ones
with fewer lines of code. This improves maintainability and allows for
easier debugging and troubleshooting.

## Sharing Values between Spec Files

When values from previously executed spec files are required, use the
\"writeToTempFile\" method available in helpers. This method creates a
temporary JSON file during runtime, allowing you to store and retrieve
key-value pairs. Import these values into subsequent spec files,
ensuring they execute only if the first file runs successfully. This
enables the use of the \"spec retry\" option without issues.

# Improving Test Execution Efficiency

## Avoid Starting Functions with Wait Statements

Starting a function with a wait statement can lead to inefficient code
execution and potential delays. Instead, place wait statements at
appropriate positions within the function for better control and
optimization.

## Ending \"It\" Blocks with \"Expect\" Statements

All \"it\" blocks should contain an

\"expect\" statement that asserts the expected condition. This improves
test readability and ensures that assertions are made within each test
case.

## Minimizing Unnecessary Variable Declarations

Reduce clutter and enhance code readability by avoiding unnecessary
variable declarations inside \"it\" blocks. Use the return value from
methods directly instead of storing it in a separate variable.

## Setting Timeouts for Wait Commands

When using commands such as \"waitForClickable()\" or
\"waitForDisplayed()\", always specify a timeout and provide a
meaningful timeout message. This prevents tests from hanging
indefinitely and provides informative error messages.

![](../assets/timeout_wait.png)

# Enhancing Maintainability

## Organizing Reusable Functions and Utilities

Improve the maintainability of your test code by organizing reusable
functions and utilities into separate files. This promotes code
reusability and makes it easier to manage and update shared code.

## Avoiding Code Duplication

Reduce code duplication by creating helper functions or custom commands
for commonly performed actions. This eliminates the need to rewrite the
same code multiple times, improving code clarity and reducing
maintenance efforts.

## Using Meaningful Names

Choose meaningful and descriptive names for variables and functions.
This enhances code clarity and makes it easier for others to understand
your code and collaborate effectively.

# Timeouts Management

## Setting Timeouts as Variables

Define timeouts as variables outside the \"describe\" block and
reference them throughout the script. This approach allows for easy
modification of timeout values by updating a single line. It is
particularly useful when addressing performance issues across the
application.

![](../assets/timeout_variable.png)

# Branch and Pull Request Guidelines

## Keeping Branches Updated and Resolving Conflicts

Ensure your branch is regularly updated with the latest changes from the
master/main branch. Resolve any conflicts that may arise to maintain a
clean codebase.

## Working on Branches with Open Pull Requests

Avoid making further changes to a branch when a pull request is open.
Instead, create a new branch for additional work or fixes. This prevents
conflicts and ensures the pull request remains focused on specific
changes.

## Deleting Branches after Pull Requests

After a pull request has been merged or closed, delete the associated
branch. This helps maintain a clean and organized repository, and
subsequent fixes or changes should be made on fresh branches.

# Conclusion

By following these test automation best practices, you can enhance the
maintainability, readability, and efficiency of your test code. Adopting
consistent naming conventions, managing test case length, improving
execution efficiency, promoting maintainability, and adhering to branch
and pull request guidelines will contribute to robust and reliable test
automation processes.
